lesson({ title:"Reading/Writing: Reading a Story",
      body:"Yesterday we learned about the four story elements: characters, setting, plot, and theme. Today we will put that knowledge to work by reading a story together and finding each element as we go. Reading carefully and understanding what you read is one of the most important skills you will ever develop.\n\nOur story is called 'The Clever Farmer of Kakata.' Listen carefully and follow along.\n\nOld Pa Sumo lived on a small farm just outside Kakata town, near the road that leads to the Farmington River. He grew rice, cassava, and pepper on his land. Every year, the rains came and his crops grew well. But one year, a long dry spell hit Margibi County. The sun beat down day after day. The streams dried to thin trickles. Pa Sumo's rice paddies cracked in the heat, and his cassava leaves wilted and turned brown.\n\nThe other farmers sat under the palaver hut and worried. 'There is nothing we can do,' they said. 'We must wait for the rain.' But Pa Sumo did not sit and wait. He remembered something his grandmother had taught him. She said that in the old days, farmers would dig small channels from the river to their farms to bring water to the crops when rain did not come.\n\nPa Sumo woke up before dawn the next morning. He took his cutlass and his hoe and walked to the Farmington River. He began digging a narrow channel from the riverbank toward his farm. It was hard work under the hot sun. His neighbors laughed at him. 'Old man, you cannot bring the river to your farm!' they said. But Pa Sumo kept digging, day after day.\n\nAfter two weeks, the channel reached his rice paddy. Cool river water flowed gently into his field. His rice plants lifted their leaves and began to grow green again. His cassava came back to life. When the other farmers saw this, they stopped laughing. One by one, they came to Pa Sumo and asked him to teach them how to dig channels too. By the end of the dry season, five farms had water channels, and the whole community had food to eat.\n\nNow let us identify the story elements. The main character is Pa Sumo. The supporting characters are the other farmers and his grandmother, who is mentioned in his memory. The setting is a farm outside Kakata, near the Farmington River, during a dry season. The plot begins with the problem — a drought threatens the crops. The climax is when Pa Sumo digs the channel and water reaches his farm. The resolution is when the other farmers learn from him and the community survives. The theme is that hard work and old wisdom can solve problems when others give up.\n\nGood readers think about what they are reading as they go. They picture the setting in their mind, they pay attention to what the characters do and say, they notice when the problem appears and how it gets solved, and they think about the lesson at the end. This is called active reading, and it helps you understand and remember stories much better than just letting the words pass over your eyes.",
      objectives:["Read a story carefully and identify all four story elements within it","Practice active reading by visualizing and questioning as you read","Retell the main events of a story in the correct order"],
      activities:["Read 'The Clever Farmer of Kakata' together and pause to discuss each element","Fill in a story elements graphic organizer for the story","Retell the story to a partner using only the graphic organizer as a guide"],
      homework:"Read or listen to a story at home. Fill in a story elements chart with the characters, setting, plot, and theme. Bring it to class tomorrow.",
      assessQ:"In the story, what was Pa Sumo's problem?",
      assessOpts:["A) A drought was killing his crops","B) He lost his cutlass","C) The river flooded his farm","D) He could not find seeds to plant"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
