lesson({ title:"Reading/Writing: Spelling Test",
      body:"This is our Friday review and spelling test for Reading and Writing. What a great week it has been! You have grown so much as readers and writers. Let us look back at everything we learned before we begin the test.\n\nOn Monday, we learned about story elements — the building blocks of every story. You can now identify characters (the people or animals in the story), setting (where and when the story happens), plot (what happens, including the problem and solution), and theme (the lesson the story teaches). You practiced finding these elements in Liberian folktales.\n\nOn Tuesday, we read a story together called 'The Clever Farmer of Kakata.' You practiced active reading — picturing the story in your mind, paying attention to each element as it appeared, and retelling the story in order. You filled in story element charts and discussed the theme of hard work and wisdom.\n\nOn Wednesday, we focused on writing sentences. You learned that a complete sentence needs a subject and a predicate, and it must express a complete thought. You practiced writing four types of sentences: declarative (statements), interrogative (questions), exclamatory (strong feelings), and imperative (commands). You practiced using capital letters and correct punctuation.\n\nOn Thursday, we learned letter writing. You now know the five parts of a friendly letter: heading, greeting, body, closing, and signature. You wrote letters to real people using polite, organized language.\n\nYour spelling test today will include words we used throughout the week. Here are the types of words to review: story element vocabulary like character, setting, plot, and theme. Sentence vocabulary like subject, predicate, declarative, and punctuation. Letter writing words like greeting, signature, and sincerely. Words from our Liberian stories like farmer, village, cassava, and harvest.\n\nSpelling tips: Sound out each word carefully. Break long words into smaller parts — 'punc-tu-a-tion' is easier than trying to spell 'punctuation' all at once. Think about the spelling rules you know: 'i before e except after c,' silent e at the end changes the vowel sound, and double the consonant before adding -ing to short vowel words.\n\nAfter the spelling test, we will do a quick review activity where you write a short paragraph using as many of this week's vocabulary words as you can. This will help you connect all the skills from the week into one piece of writing.\n\nYou have worked hard and learned so much this week. Spelling tests help us remember important words that we will use again and again in our reading and writing. Do your best, take your time, and be proud of what you know!",
      objectives:["Spell key vocabulary words from the week's reading and writing lessons correctly","Demonstrate understanding of story elements, sentence types, and letter format","Apply the week's literacy skills in a short writing activity"],
      activities:["Take the weekly spelling test — 15 words from the week's vocabulary","Write a short paragraph using at least 5 vocabulary words from the week","Review and self-correct the spelling test as the teacher reads the answers"],
      homework:"Write each misspelled word correctly five times. Then write one sentence using each word to show you understand its meaning.",
      assessQ:"Which word is spelled correctly?",
      assessOpts:["A) Character","B) Charakter","C) Caractor","D) Charactir"],
      assessAns:"A",
      weeklyReview:"This week in Reading and Writing: Monday — Story elements: characters, setting, plot, and theme. Tuesday — Active reading: reading 'The Clever Farmer of Kakata' and identifying all story elements. Wednesday — Writing sentences: subject and predicate, four sentence types (declarative, interrogative, exclamatory, imperative), capitalization and punctuation. Thursday — Letter writing: the five parts of a friendly letter (heading, greeting, body, closing, signature).",
      masteryChecks:[
        {question:"What is the setting of a story?", options:["A) Where and when the story takes place","B) The main character","C) The lesson of the story","D) The beginning of the story"], correctAnswer:"A"},
        {question:"What two parts must every complete sentence have?", options:["A) A subject and a predicate","B) A question and an answer","C) A greeting and a closing","D) An introduction and a conclusion"], correctAnswer:"A"},
        {question:"Which sentence is interrogative?", options:["A) Where is the market?","B) The market is open.","C) Go to the market!","D) What a big market!"], correctAnswer:"A"},
        {question:"What is the first part of a friendly letter?", options:["A) The heading","B) The greeting","C) The body","D) The signature"], correctAnswer:"A"},
        {question:"What is the theme of a story?", options:["A) The lesson or message the story teaches","B) The title of the story","C) The list of characters","D) The last sentence"], correctAnswer:"A"}
      ]
    })
