lesson({ title:"Our Environment: Water Sources",
      body:"Water is one of the most important things in our environment. Every living thing — people, animals, and plants — needs water to survive. Today we will learn about the different sources of water in our community here in Kakata and Margibi County, and why it is important to keep our water clean.\n\nThere are two main types of water sources: surface water and underground water. Surface water is water that you can see on top of the ground. This includes rivers, streams, creeks, lakes, and ponds. The Farmington River is one of the most important surface water sources near Kakata. It flows through Margibi County and provides water for farming, washing, and fishing. Many families who live along its banks depend on it every day.\n\nUnderground water is water that is stored below the surface of the earth in spaces between rocks and soil. This water is reached by digging wells or drilling boreholes. When you see a hand pump in a village near Kakata, it is pulling underground water up from deep below. Underground water is often cleaner than surface water because the soil and rocks act like a natural filter as the water seeps down.\n\nRainwater is another important source of water, especially here in Liberia where we receive heavy rainfall during the rainy season from May to October. Many families in rural Margibi County collect rainwater from their zinc roofs into buckets, drums, or tanks. This collected rainwater can be used for cooking, drinking (after treatment), washing, and watering gardens during the dry season.\n\nIn Kakata town, some homes and public buildings are connected to pipe-borne water from the water treatment system. However, in many rural areas around Kakata, people still rely on wells, hand pumps, rivers, and rainwater collection. The Liberian government and organizations like UNICEF have been working to install more hand pumps and improve water access in rural communities across Margibi County.\n\nNot all water is safe to drink. Water from rivers and streams may contain germs, dirt, and tiny organisms that can make you sick with diseases like cholera, typhoid, and diarrhea. This is why it is very important to treat water before drinking it. You can boil water for at least one minute to kill germs. You can also use water purification tablets or a clean cloth filter to make water safer.\n\nKeeping our water sources clean is everyone's responsibility. We should not throw rubbish into rivers or streams. We should not wash clothes or bathe directly in water sources that others use for drinking. We should build latrines far away from wells and rivers to prevent contamination. When we protect our water sources, we protect the health of our whole community.\n\nThink about where your family gets water. Is it from a well, a hand pump, the river, or rainwater collection? Understanding where our water comes from helps us appreciate this precious resource and take better care of it.",
      objectives:["Identify the main sources of water in Kakata and rural Margibi County","Explain the difference between surface water and underground water","Describe ways to keep water sources clean and make water safe for drinking"],
      activities:["Draw and label a diagram showing different water sources: river, well, hand pump, rainwater collection","Discuss as a class: where does your family get water? List all the sources on the board","Demonstrate how to filter water using a clean cloth and discuss boiling for safety"],
      homework:"Ask your family where your household water comes from. Draw a picture of your water source and write three sentences about how your family keeps water clean.",
      assessQ:"Why is underground water often cleaner than river water?",
      assessOpts:["A) The soil and rocks filter the water as it seeps down","B) Underground water is always boiled","C) Rivers are always dirty","D) Underground water has chemicals added to it"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
