lesson({ title:"Our Environment: Plants Around Us",
      body:"Today we begin our science unit on Our Environment by looking at the plants that grow all around us here in Kakata and Margibi County. Plants are some of the most important living things on Earth, and Liberia is blessed with an incredible variety of them.\n\nPlants are living things that make their own food using sunlight, water, and air. This process is called photosynthesis. The green color in leaves comes from a substance called chlorophyll, which captures sunlight energy. Without plants, there would be no food for animals or humans, and there would not be enough oxygen in the air for us to breathe.\n\nLet us look at the plants right here around our school in Kakata. You might see mango trees with their broad green leaves, providing shade and delicious fruit. Cassava plants grow in nearby farms — cassava is one of the most important food crops in Liberia. Palm trees stand tall along the roads, giving us palm oil, palm butter, palm wine, and materials for building. Rubber trees, which are especially common here in Margibi County, produce latex that is collected and sold — rubber farming has been part of life in this area since the Firestone Plantation was established.\n\nPlants have different parts, and each part has a job. Roots grow underground and hold the plant in the soil. They also absorb water and nutrients from the ground. The stem holds the plant upright and carries water from the roots to the leaves. Leaves are where photosynthesis happens — they capture sunlight and make food for the plant. Flowers are the part of the plant that helps it reproduce, often producing fruits and seeds.\n\nDifferent types of plants grow in different places. In the tropical rainforest near Kakata, tall trees like mahogany and iroko reach high into the sky, forming a thick canopy. Smaller plants grow in their shade on the forest floor. Along the Farmington River, you can find water-loving plants with roots that reach into the riverbank. In the farms and gardens of our community, people grow food crops like rice, pepper, okra, bitter ball, and potato greens.\n\nPlants are important to our community in many ways. They provide food for our families. They give us medicine — many traditional healers in Margibi County use plant leaves, bark, and roots to treat illnesses. Trees provide wood for building houses, making furniture, and cooking fires. Plants also help prevent soil erosion — their roots hold the red laterite soil in place so that heavy rains do not wash it away.\n\nAs students in Kakata, you can observe plants every day. Notice how they grow toward the sunlight, how their leaves change in dry season, and how new shoots appear after the rains begin. Science starts with observation, and plants are all around you waiting to be studied!",
      objectives:["Name at least five plants commonly found in Kakata and Margibi County","Identify the main parts of a plant and explain their functions","Explain why plants are important to our community and environment"],
      activities:["Take a short walk around the school compound to identify and list plants we see","Draw and label the parts of a plant: roots, stem, leaves, flower","Discuss in groups: how do your families use plants at home?"],
      homework:"Find three different plants near your home. Draw each one and label its parts. Write one sentence about how your family uses each plant.",
      assessQ:"What is the process called when plants make their own food using sunlight?",
      assessOpts:["A) Photosynthesis","B) Respiration","C) Evaporation","D) Digestion"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
