lesson({ title:"Reading/Writing: Story Elements",
      body:"Welcome to our reading and writing lesson! Today we will learn about story elements — the building blocks that every good story is made of. Whether it is a tale told by your grandmother under the palaver hut or a story printed in a book at the Kakata library, all stories share the same basic parts.\n\nThe first element is characters. Characters are the people or animals in the story. They can be main characters, who the story is mostly about, or supporting characters, who help the story along. In a Liberian folktale, Spider might be the main character, while the other animals are supporting characters.\n\nThe second element is setting. The setting tells us where and when the story takes place. A story might be set in a small village near the Farmington River in Margibi County, or it might happen long ago during the time of our ancestors. The setting helps us picture the story in our minds. When you read that a story happens in a Kakata classroom on a rainy morning, you can imagine the sound of rain on the zinc roof and the red laterite mud outside.\n\nThe third element is plot. The plot is what happens in the story — the events from beginning to middle to end. Every plot has a problem, sometimes called the conflict. The problem is what the main character must solve or overcome. Maybe a young girl must find her way home through the forest, or a boy must earn money to buy his school uniform. The most exciting part of the plot, where the problem is biggest, is called the climax. After the climax, the problem gets resolved and the story ends.\n\nThe fourth element is theme. The theme is the lesson or message the story teaches us. Liberian folktales often have strong themes: honesty is the best policy, greed leads to trouble, or working together makes us stronger. The theme is not usually stated directly — you have to think about what the story is really trying to tell you.\n\nLet us practice with a simple story. Imagine a boy named Kollie who lives in a village outside Kakata. He finds a lost goat on his way to school. He could keep the goat, but instead he asks around the village until he finds the owner, Old Ma Yah. She rewards him with a bag of groundnuts. The characters are Kollie, Ma Yah, and the goat. The setting is a village near Kakata. The plot is Kollie finding and returning the goat. The theme is that honesty brings rewards.\n\nUnderstanding story elements makes you a better reader because you can follow any story more easily. It also makes you a better writer because you know what parts your own stories need. This week we will read stories and identify their elements, and by Friday you will be experts!",
      objectives:["Identify the four main story elements: characters, setting, plot, and theme","Explain the role of each story element using examples","Recognize story elements in Liberian folktales and classroom readings"],
      activities:["Listen to a Liberian folktale and identify all four story elements together","Draw a story elements chart and fill it in for a short story","Act out a short scene in groups, then identify the elements in your scene"],
      homework:"Think of a story you know well — a folktale, a family story, or a story from a book. Write down the characters, setting, plot, and theme.",
      assessQ:"What is the setting of a story?",
      assessOpts:["A) Where and when the story takes place","B) The main character","C) The lesson of the story","D) The problem in the story"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
