lesson({ title:"Our Environment: Weather & Seasons",
      body:"Today we learn about weather and seasons — two things that affect our daily life here in Kakata and throughout Liberia. Weather is the condition of the atmosphere at a particular time and place. It includes temperature, rainfall, wind, clouds, and humidity. Seasons are longer patterns of weather that repeat each year.\n\nLiberia has two main seasons: the rainy season and the dry season. The rainy season usually runs from May to October. During this time, heavy rains fall almost every day, sometimes for hours at a time. The sky is often cloudy and grey. Rivers like the Farmington swell with water and sometimes overflow their banks. The red laterite roads around Kakata become muddy and difficult to travel on. Farmers plant their crops during the rainy season because the soil is wet and seeds can germinate and grow.\n\nThe dry season runs from November to April. During the dry season, there is very little rainfall. The sun shines brightly and temperatures are high. The harmattan winds blow dry, dusty air from the Sahara Desert across West Africa, sometimes making the air hazy and cool in the mornings. Streams and creeks dry up or become very low. The ground becomes hard and cracked. Farmers harvest their crops during the dry season and prepare their fields for the next planting.\n\nWeather affects everything we do in Kakata. During the rainy season, students may arrive at school wet from walking through the rain. Zinc roofs can be very noisy when heavy rain falls on them. Flooding can damage homes near rivers and low-lying areas. But the rains are also a blessing — they fill our wells, water our crops, and keep our rivers flowing.\n\nDuring the dry season, water can become scarce in rural areas. Families must walk further to find water. Bush fires are more common because dry grass burns easily. Dust from the harmattan can cause coughs and sore eyes. But the dry season also brings good things — easier travel on dry roads, sunny days for drying fish and harvesting rice, and clear nights for seeing the stars.\n\nWe can observe and measure weather in simple ways. A thermometer measures temperature — how hot or cold it is. A rain gauge measures how much rain falls. We can observe cloud types: big puffy cumulus clouds often mean fair weather, while dark nimbus clouds mean rain is coming. We can feel wind speed by how strongly the trees sway and leaves rustle.\n\nUnderstanding weather and seasons helps farmers decide when to plant and harvest. It helps families prepare for rainy season by repairing roofs and stocking food. It helps communities plan for dry season by storing water. Weather knowledge is practical science that everyone in Kakata uses every day, even if they do not think of it as science.\n\nPay attention to the weather today when you go home. What is the sky like? Is it hot or cool? Is there wind? You are now weather scientists!",
      objectives:["Describe the two main seasons in Liberia and their characteristics","Explain how weather affects daily life in Kakata and Margibi County","Identify simple ways to observe and measure weather conditions"],
      activities:["Create a two-column chart comparing the rainy season and dry season in Liberia","Go outside and observe today's weather: record temperature feeling, cloud types, wind, and sky condition","Draw a picture showing how Kakata looks different in rainy season versus dry season"],
      homework:"Keep a simple weather diary for three days. Each day, write the date and describe: Is it sunny or cloudy? Hot or cool? Windy or calm? Did it rain?",
      assessQ:"When does the rainy season usually occur in Liberia?",
      assessOpts:["A) May to October","B) January to March","C) November to April","D) July to August only"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
