lesson({ title:"Our Environment: Caring for Our Environment",
      body:"This week we have learned about the plants, water, and weather in our environment. Today we bring everything together by talking about why we must care for our environment and what we can do to protect it right here in Kakata and Margibi County.\n\nOur environment gives us everything we need to live. The plants give us food, medicine, building materials, and clean air to breathe. The water sources give us water for drinking, cooking, washing, and farming. The weather patterns tell us when to plant and when to harvest. If we damage our environment, we hurt ourselves and our community.\n\nOne of the biggest problems facing our environment in Margibi County is deforestation — cutting down too many trees without planting new ones. Trees are cut for firewood and charcoal, for building materials, and to clear land for farming. When too many trees are removed, the soil becomes loose and washes away during heavy rains. This is called soil erosion. Without tree roots to hold the soil, the red laterite earth runs into our rivers and streams, making the water dirty and reducing the amount of good farmland.\n\nAnother problem is water pollution. When people throw rubbish into rivers and streams, or when waste from latrines seeps into water sources, the water becomes unsafe to drink. In Kakata, you may have seen plastic bags, bottles, and other waste along roadsides and in streams. This rubbish does not go away on its own — plastic can last for hundreds of years. It harms animals, blocks waterways, and makes our community look dirty.\n\nBurning rubbish and clearing land with fire causes air pollution. Smoke from burning can make people sick, especially children and elderly people. Bush fires during the dry season can burn out of control and destroy farms, homes, and wildlife habitat.\n\nBut here is the good news — every one of you can help protect our environment! Here are actions you can take right now.\n\nPlant trees. If your family cuts a tree for firewood, plant two new seedlings in its place. Trees grow well in Margibi County's climate. Even planting a fruit tree like mango or orange gives food and shade.\n\nKeep water sources clean. Never throw rubbish in rivers, streams, or near wells. Build latrines far from water sources. Encourage your family and neighbors to do the same.\n\nReduce waste. Use containers you can wash and reuse instead of plastic bags when possible. Pick up litter around your school and home.\n\nPractice good farming. Instead of burning bush to clear land, farmers can use other methods that do not destroy the soil. Planting different crops in rotation keeps the soil healthy.\n\nTake care of animals. Animals are part of our environment too. Do not hunt or harm animals unnecessarily. Protect their habitats so they can continue to live alongside us.\n\nRemember the saying: 'We do not inherit the environment from our parents — we borrow it from our children.' The way we treat our environment today affects what Kakata and Margibi County will look like for the next generation. You are the future caretakers of this land. Start caring for it now!",
      objectives:["Explain why caring for the environment is important for our community","Identify environmental problems facing Kakata and Margibi County","Describe at least three actions students can take to protect the environment"],
      activities:["Brainstorm a list of environmental problems you have seen in Kakata on the board","Create a poster in small groups showing one environmental problem and one solution","Plan a class cleanup activity for the school compound — assign roles and areas"],
      homework:"Walk around your home or neighborhood and identify one environmental problem you see (litter, erosion, cutting trees, etc.). Draw or describe the problem and suggest a solution. Bring your ideas to class tomorrow.",
      assessQ:"What is deforestation?",
      assessOpts:["A) Cutting down too many trees without planting new ones","B) Planting new trees","C) Collecting rainwater","D) Building new roads"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
