lesson({ title:"Reading/Writing: Writing Sentences",
      body:"Today we move from reading stories to writing our own sentences. A sentence is a group of words that expresses a complete thought. It always begins with a capital letter and ends with a punctuation mark — a period, a question mark, or an exclamation mark. Every sentence needs two main parts: a subject and a predicate.\n\nThe subject tells us who or what the sentence is about. The predicate tells us what the subject does or is. In the sentence 'The farmer plants rice,' the subject is 'The farmer' and the predicate is 'plants rice.' In 'Kakata is a town in Margibi County,' the subject is 'Kakata' and the predicate is 'is a town in Margibi County.'\n\nThere are four types of sentences. A declarative sentence makes a statement and ends with a period: 'The Farmington River flows through Margibi County.' An interrogative sentence asks a question and ends with a question mark: 'Where is the nearest hand pump?' An exclamatory sentence shows strong feeling and ends with an exclamation mark: 'What a beautiful sunset over Kakata!' An imperative sentence gives a command or request: 'Please close the door.'\n\nWhen writing sentences, there are some important rules to follow. Always start with a capital letter. Always end with the correct punctuation mark. Make sure your sentence has both a subject and a predicate — if it is missing one, it is a fragment, not a complete sentence. 'Running to school' is a fragment because it has no subject. Who is running? We do not know. 'The boy runs to school' is a complete sentence.\n\nLet us practice writing sentences about life in Kakata. Think about your morning routine. You might write: 'I wake up early every morning to help my mother fetch water.' This sentence has a subject (I), a predicate (wake up early every morning to help my mother fetch water), starts with a capital letter, and ends with a period. It is a complete declarative sentence.\n\nNow think about your school. You could write: 'How many students are in our class?' This is an interrogative sentence with a subject (how many students) and a predicate (are in our class), and it ends with a question mark.\n\nGood writers use a variety of sentence types to make their writing interesting. If every sentence is a statement, your writing becomes boring. Mix in questions, exclamations, and commands to keep your reader engaged.\n\nAnother tip for strong sentences: be specific. Instead of writing 'The tree is big,' write 'The old mango tree behind our school stretches its branches over the entire playground.' Specific details paint pictures in the reader's mind and make your writing come alive.\n\nToday you will practice writing all four types of sentences about things you see, do, and experience here in Kakata. The more you practice writing clear, complete sentences, the better your writing will become in every subject.",
      objectives:["Write complete sentences with a subject and a predicate","Identify and use all four types of sentences: declarative, interrogative, exclamatory, and imperative","Use correct capitalization and punctuation in every sentence"],
      activities:["Sort sentence cards into the four types: declarative, interrogative, exclamatory, imperative","Write two sentences of each type about life in Kakata","Edit a paragraph with missing capitals and punctuation — add the corrections"],
      homework:"Write eight sentences about your community — two declarative, two interrogative, two exclamatory, and two imperative. Underline the subject and circle the predicate in each.",
      assessQ:"Which is a complete sentence?",
      assessOpts:["A) The children walk to school every morning.","B) Walking to school.","C) The big red.","D) Because it rained."],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
