lesson({ title:"Our Environment: Quiz",
      body:"Welcome to our Friday science quiz on Our Environment! This week we explored the natural world around us here in Kakata and Margibi County. Let us review what we covered each day before you take the quiz.\n\nOn Monday, we studied Plants Around Us. You learned that plants are living things that make their own food through photosynthesis using sunlight, water, and carbon dioxide. You identified common plants in Kakata including mango trees, cassava, palm trees, rubber trees, and rainforest trees like mahogany. You learned the parts of a plant — roots that anchor the plant and absorb water, stems that support the plant and transport water, leaves where photosynthesis happens, and flowers that help the plant reproduce. You discovered that plants provide food, medicine, building materials, and clean air for our community.\n\nOn Tuesday, we explored Water Sources. You learned about surface water like rivers and streams — the Farmington River being a major source near Kakata. You learned about underground water accessed through wells and hand pumps, and about rainwater collection from zinc roofs. You discovered that underground water is often cleaner because soil and rocks act as natural filters. You learned the importance of treating water by boiling or filtering before drinking, and keeping water sources clean by not dumping rubbish or building latrines too close to wells and rivers.\n\nOn Wednesday, we studied Weather and Seasons. You learned that Liberia has two main seasons: the rainy season from May to October and the dry season from November to April. The rainy season brings heavy rainfall, muddy roads, swelling rivers, and good conditions for planting crops. The dry season brings hot temperatures, harmattan winds, dry streams, and harvest time. You practiced observing weather by noting temperature, cloud types, wind, and rainfall.\n\nOn Thursday, we learned about Caring for Our Environment. You identified environmental problems in Kakata and Margibi County including deforestation, soil erosion, water pollution, and air pollution from burning rubbish. You learned solutions: planting trees, keeping water sources clean, reducing waste, practicing good farming methods, and protecting animal habitats. You remembered the important idea that we borrow the environment from our children.\n\nAll these topics are connected. Plants need water and the right weather to grow. Water sources are affected by weather patterns and by how we treat the land. When we cut down trees, it affects the soil, the water, and even the weather. Our environment is like a web where everything is linked together.\n\nYour quiz today will test your understanding of plants, water sources, weather and seasons, and environmental care. Read each question carefully. Use what you learned in class, from your homework observations, and from your own experiences in Kakata. You are not just learning science from a book — you are learning about the world you live in every day.\n\nI am confident that you will do well. You have been curious, observant, and thoughtful all week. Show what you know about our beautiful environment!",
      objectives:["Demonstrate understanding of plants, water sources, weather, and environmental care","Connect science concepts to real observations in Kakata and Margibi County","Apply environmental knowledge to solve problems and suggest solutions"],
      activities:["Complete the weekly science quiz covering all four days of content","Review quiz answers as a class and discuss any questions","Reflection circle: share one thing you will do differently to care for the environment"],
      homework:"Create a colorful poster titled 'Our Environment in Kakata' that includes at least one fact from each day this week: plants, water, weather, and environmental care. Bring it to display in class next week.",
      assessQ:"What are the two main seasons in Liberia?",
      assessOpts:["A) Rainy season and dry season","B) Spring and autumn","C) Summer and winter","D) Hot season and cold season"],
      assessAns:"A",
      weeklyReview:"Our Environment Week: Monday — Plants Around Us: photosynthesis, plant parts (roots, stem, leaves, flowers), common Kakata plants, importance of plants. Tuesday — Water Sources: surface water (rivers, streams), underground water (wells, hand pumps), rainwater collection, water treatment and keeping sources clean. Wednesday — Weather and Seasons: rainy season (May-October) and dry season (November-April), weather observation, effects on daily life and farming. Thursday — Caring for Our Environment: deforestation, erosion, pollution, and solutions including tree planting, keeping water clean, reducing waste, and good farming practices.",
      masteryChecks:[
        {question:"What process do plants use to make their own food?", options:["A) Photosynthesis","B) Respiration","C) Evaporation","D) Multiplication"], correctAnswer:"A"},
        {question:"Which is a source of underground water?", options:["A) A hand pump or well","B) A river","C) A lake","D) Rainwater from the roof"], correctAnswer:"A"},
        {question:"During which season do farmers in Liberia usually plant crops?", options:["A) The rainy season","B) The dry season","C) The harmattan","D) The cold season"], correctAnswer:"A"},
        {question:"What causes soil erosion when trees are cut down?", options:["A) Rain washes away soil that tree roots no longer hold in place","B) The sun dries out the soil","C) Animals eat the soil","D) Wind blows the trees away"], correctAnswer:"A"},
        {question:"What is one way to make river water safer to drink?", options:["A) Boil it for at least one minute","B) Let it sit in the sun","C) Add sugar to it","D) Stir it with a stick"], correctAnswer:"A"}
      ]
    })
