lesson({ title:"West Africa: Economic Activities",
      body:"West Africa's economy is diverse, driven by agriculture, mining, trade, and increasingly, services and technology. Today we examine the major economic activities across the region and how they connect to the physical features and climate zones we studied.\n\nAgriculture is the backbone of most West African economies. In the tropical rainforest zone (Liberia, Sierra Leone, southern Ghana), crops include cocoa, rubber, palm oil, coffee, and rice. In the savanna zone, farmers grow yams, millet, sorghum, maize, and groundnuts. In the Sahel, livestock herding (cattle, goats, sheep) is the primary livelihood.\n\nIn Liberia, agriculture employs about 70% of the population. Key crops include rubber (Liberia was once one of the world's largest producers), cocoa, coffee, cassava, and rice. Firestone's rubber plantation in Margibi County was historically one of the world's largest. Today, small-scale farming dominates, with families growing cassava, rice, and vegetables for food and local markets.\n\nMining is crucial to several West African economies. Liberia exports iron ore (from Nimba County), gold, and diamonds. Sierra Leone is known for diamonds. Guinea has the world's largest bauxite reserves. Ghana is a major gold producer — its colonial name was even 'Gold Coast.' Nigeria is West Africa's largest oil producer and one of Africa's biggest economies.\n\nFishing is important along the Atlantic coast. Liberian fishermen catch snapper, barracuda, grouper, and shrimp. Fish is a major protein source and an important trade commodity at coastal markets.\n\nTrade connects West African countries. The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), headquartered in Abuja, Nigeria, promotes economic integration. Member states work toward reducing trade barriers, allowing free movement of people, and coordinating economic policies.\n\nChallenges facing West African economies include: infrastructure gaps (poor roads, limited electricity), dependence on raw material exports, climate change impacts on agriculture, and the need for more manufacturing and value-added processing.\n\nUnderstanding these economic activities helps us see how Liberia fits into the broader West African economic landscape and where opportunities exist for growth.",
      objectives:["Identify major economic activities across West Africa's climate zones","Explain Liberia's key economic sectors and their importance","Describe the role of ECOWAS in regional economic integration"],
      activities:["Create an economic map of West Africa showing major products by country","Debate: What should Liberia prioritize — agriculture, mining, or services?","Research and present on one West African country's main economic activity"],
      homework:"Write a paragraph about one economic activity in Liberia and its importance to the country's development.",
      assessQ:"What organization promotes economic cooperation among West African countries?",
      assessOpts:["A) ECOWAS","B) NATO","C) UNICEF","D) UNESCO"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
