lesson({ title:"Novel Study: Story Elements",
      body:"Today we begin our novel study by understanding the five essential elements of every story: characters, setting, plot, conflict, and theme. These elements work together like the ingredients in a good pot of palm butter soup — each one is essential.\n\nCharacters are the people (or sometimes animals) in the story. The main character, or protagonist, is who the story is mostly about. The antagonist is the character or force that creates problems for the protagonist. In many Liberian folk tales, the spider (Anansi) is the clever protagonist who outsmarts larger, stronger characters.\n\nSetting is where and when the story takes place. Setting includes the physical location, the time period, the weather, and the social environment. A story set in Monrovia in 2024 feels very different from one set in a rural village in Bong County during the 1950s. Good authors use setting to create mood and atmosphere.\n\nPlot is the sequence of events — what happens in the story from beginning to end. Most plots follow a pattern: exposition (introduction), rising action (events building tension), climax (the turning point), falling action (events after the climax), and resolution (how things end up).\n\nConflict is the problem or struggle in the story. Without conflict, there is no story. Conflict can be person vs. person (two characters disagree), person vs. nature (a character battles a storm or disease), person vs. society (a character challenges unfair rules), or person vs. self (a character struggles with their own feelings or decisions).\n\nTheme is the underlying message or lesson. It is what the author wants you to think about after reading. Themes are often universal: love, courage, justice, growing up, good vs. evil. A Liberian folk tale about a greedy chief who loses everything might have the theme 'Greed leads to ruin.'\n\nAs we read our novel this week, you will identify each of these elements. Pay attention to how the author introduces characters, builds the setting, develops the plot, creates conflict, and reveals the theme. Understanding story elements makes you a deeper, more thoughtful reader.",
      objectives:["Identify the five essential story elements in any narrative","Distinguish between types of conflict in stories","Analyze how setting influences mood and plot development"],
      activities:["Map story elements from a familiar Liberian folk tale onto a graphic organizer","Identify all types of conflict in short story excerpts","Create a story elements poster for the first chapter of our novel"],
      homework:"Read Chapter 1 of the novel. Identify and write down the main characters, setting, and initial conflict.",
      assessQ:"Which story element describes WHERE and WHEN a story takes place?",
      assessOpts:["A) Setting","B) Plot","C) Theme","D) Conflict"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
