lesson({ title:"States of Matter: Gases",
      body:"We have studied solids (fixed shape, fixed volume) and liquids (takes container shape, fixed volume). Today we complete our exploration with the third state of matter: gases. A gas has no fixed shape and no fixed volume — it expands to fill whatever space is available.\n\nWhy do gases behave this way? In a gas, particles are spread far apart and move very quickly in all directions. They bounce off each other and off the walls of their container. Unlike solids where particles are locked in place, or liquids where they slide past each other, gas particles zoom around freely.\n\nThe air around us is a gas — actually a mixture of gases: about 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen, and small amounts of carbon dioxide and other gases. Even though we cannot see air, we can feel it. When the harmattan wind blows dust from the Sahara down to Liberia during the dry season, you feel the air moving. When you blow on hot jollof rice to cool it, you are using moving air particles to carry heat away.\n\nGases in Liberia play important roles. Oxygen in the air keeps us alive and feeds cooking fires. Carbon dioxide is absorbed by our tropical rainforests — Liberia's forests are part of the Upper Guinean Rainforest, one of the world's most important carbon sinks. The steam rising from a pot of palm butter soup is water in gas form.\n\nGases can be compressed — squeezed into a smaller space. This is because there is so much empty space between gas particles. Bicycle tire pumps work by compressing air. Cooking gas cylinders used in Monrovia households hold compressed gas.\n\nGas pressure is the force gas particles exert on the walls of their container. When you heat a gas, particles move faster and pressure increases. This is why a sealed pot on the fire can become dangerous — the steam pressure builds up inside.\n\nTemperature and volume of gases are related. When heated, gases expand (volume increases). When cooled, they contract. This is why hot air balloons rise — the heated air inside is less dense than the cooler air outside.\n\nUnderstanding gases helps explain weather, cooking, breathing, and many other everyday phenomena in Liberia.",
      objectives:["Describe the properties of gases including shape, volume, and compressibility","Explain how gas particles move and interact","Relate gas behavior to everyday phenomena in Liberia"],
      activities:["Inflate balloons to different sizes and discuss gas expansion","Heat and cool a sealed balloon to observe volume changes","Create a Venn diagram comparing solids, liquids, and gases"],
      homework:"Explain three examples of gases you encounter daily. For each, describe what the gas is and why it matters.",
      assessQ:"What happens to gas particles when the gas is heated?",
      assessOpts:["A) They move faster and spread further apart","B) They slow down and pack together","C) They stop moving","D) They turn into a liquid"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
