lesson({ title:"Reading: Inference Skills",
      body:"When you read, not everything is stated directly. Sometimes you must read between the lines — combining what the text says with what you already know to figure out something the author does not say explicitly. This skill is called making inferences.\n\nAn inference is an educated guess based on evidence. If you see dark clouds over Monrovia and people carrying umbrellas, you infer it will rain soon. The rain was not stated — you figured it out from clues.\n\nIn reading, inferences work the same way. Consider this passage: 'Musu looked at the empty pot and sighed. The children would be home from school soon. She counted the coins in her hand — only 50 LRD.' What can you infer? Musu probably cannot afford to buy enough food for dinner. The text does not say this directly, but the clues (empty pot, children coming, few coins) lead us to this conclusion.\n\nTo make good inferences, combine text clues with your background knowledge. Text clue: 'The old man walked slowly with a stick.' Background knowledge: elderly people sometimes need walking aids. Inference: The man is elderly and may have difficulty walking.\n\nPractice passage: 'Emmanuel packed his books carefully into his bag. He checked his uniform — clean and pressed. He had studied until midnight. When his mother called, he was already waiting at the door with a big smile.' What can you infer? Emmanuel is prepared and excited about school today, probably because of an important exam.\n\nInferences are different from facts. A fact is stated directly in the text. An inference is something you figure out. Good readers constantly make inferences as they read, which helps them understand characters, predict what will happen next, and grasp deeper meanings.\n\nBe careful not to make inferences that go too far beyond the evidence. Your inference should be strongly supported by text clues, not just your imagination. If the text says 'Sarah was quiet during lunch,' you can infer she might be thinking or upset, but you cannot infer she failed an exam — there is no evidence for that.\n\nPracticing inference skills will help you in reading comprehension tests, in understanding stories and news articles, and in daily conversations where people hint at things without saying them directly.",
      objectives:["Define inference and distinguish it from stated facts","Use text clues and background knowledge to make inferences","Support inferences with evidence from the text"],
      activities:["Read short passages and identify text clues that lead to inferences","Play 'What can you infer?' with picture prompts from Liberian daily life","Practice inference worksheets with multiple-choice and written responses"],
      homework:"Read a short passage and write 3 inferences you can make. For each, list the text clue and your background knowledge.",
      assessQ:"What is an inference?",
      assessOpts:["A) A conclusion based on text clues and background knowledge","B) A fact stated directly in the text","C) A summary of the whole passage","D) The first sentence of a paragraph"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
