lesson({ title:"Reading Comprehension: Supporting Details",
      body:"Yesterday we learned to find the main idea in a passage. Today we focus on supporting details — the facts, examples, and explanations that prove or develop the main idea. Supporting details are like the pillars that hold up a building; without them, the main idea would fall.\n\nSupporting details answer the questions Who? What? When? Where? Why? and How? They give the reader evidence and specifics. If the main idea is 'Liberian markets are important community centers,' the supporting details might include: 'Waterside Market in Monrovia has over 2,000 traders,' 'Families buy food, cloth, and medicine there,' and 'People share news and settle disputes at the market.'\n\nThere are different types of supporting details. Facts are statements that can be proven true — 'Liberia has 15 counties.' Examples illustrate a point — 'For instance, the Kpelle people of Bong County grow rice as their main crop.' Explanations tell why or how something works — 'Markets are busy on Saturdays because most workers have the day off.'\n\nLet us read a passage together: 'Education in Liberia has improved since the end of the civil conflict. The government has built over 300 new schools across all 15 counties. More girls are now attending school than ever before. International organizations like UNICEF provide textbooks and training for teachers. However, many rural schools still lack basic supplies like desks and books.'\n\nThe main idea is: 'Education in Liberia has improved but still faces challenges.' The supporting details include the 300 new schools (fact), more girls attending (fact), UNICEF providing textbooks (example of support), and rural schools lacking supplies (contrasting detail).\n\nNotice how the last detail contrasts with the others — it shows a challenge alongside the progress. Good readers notice both positive and contrasting details because they give a fuller picture.\n\nAs you read, practice marking supporting details. Underline them or write them in the margin. This active reading strategy will help you understand and remember what you read in every subject.",
      objectives:["Identify supporting details that connect to the main idea","Classify details as facts, examples, or explanations","Distinguish between supporting and contrasting details"],
      activities:["Read a passage and highlight supporting details in different colors by type","Create a main idea web with supporting details branching out","Write 3 supporting details for a given main idea about your community"],
      homework:"Read a passage from your textbook. Write the main idea and list 4 supporting details.",
      assessQ:"Which type of supporting detail can be proven true?",
      assessOpts:["A) A fact","B) An opinion","C) A guess","D) A question"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
