lesson({ title:"West Africa: Climate Zones",
      body:"Yesterday we studied West Africa's physical features. Today we explore the region's climate zones — the patterns of weather that shape life, farming, and culture across the region.\n\nWest Africa has four main climate zones, arranged roughly in bands from north to south. Understanding these zones helps explain why different areas have different lifestyles, crops, and challenges.\n\nThe Saharan Zone covers the northernmost parts (northern Mali, Niger, Mauritania). It is extremely hot and dry — some areas receive less than 100mm of rain per year. Temperatures can exceed 50Â°C. Few people live here, and those who do are often nomadic herders. Vegetation is almost nonexistent.\n\nThe Sahel Zone is a semi-arid transition belt south of the Sahara. Rainfall ranges from 200-600mm per year. The Sahel faces serious challenges: desertification (the Sahara expanding southward), drought, and food insecurity. Countries like Burkina Faso, northern Nigeria, and northern Senegal are in the Sahel. People here grow millet, sorghum, and raise cattle.\n\nThe Savanna Zone covers a wide band of tropical grassland with scattered trees. Rainfall is moderate (600-1500mm per year) with distinct wet and dry seasons. This zone supports farming (yams, corn, rice) and livestock. Much of Ghana, southern Mali, and central Nigeria are savanna. The harmattan wind blows dry, dusty air from the Sahara across the savanna during the dry season — Liberians feel this in December and January.\n\nThe Tropical Rainforest Zone covers the southern coastal areas, including Liberia, Sierra Leone, southern Ghana, and southern Nigeria. Rainfall is heavy (over 2000mm per year). Liberia receives about 4,000mm annually — one of the wettest places in Africa! The climate is hot and humid year-round. Dense forests grow here, supporting incredible biodiversity.\n\nLiberia's climate is equatorial tropical: hot (24-32Â°C year-round), wet (a long rainy season from May to October and a shorter dry season from November to April). This climate supports our rainforests, river systems, and agricultural products like rubber, cocoa, and rice.\n\nClimate affects everything: the crops people grow, the houses they build, the clothes they wear, and even their cultural celebrations. Understanding West Africa's climate zones helps us appreciate the diversity of this region.",
      objectives:["Identify and describe the four main climate zones of West Africa","Explain how climate affects human activities in each zone","Locate Liberia within the tropical rainforest climate zone"],
      activities:["Color-code a map of West Africa showing the four climate zones","Match climate zone descriptions to photographs of landscapes","Compare rainfall data for 4 West African cities in different zones"],
      homework:"Create a climate comparison chart: for each of the 4 zones, list rainfall, temperature, vegetation, and typical crops.",
      assessQ:"In which climate zone is Liberia located?",
      assessOpts:["A) Tropical Rainforest","B) Sahel","C) Savanna","D) Saharan"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
