lesson({ title:"Cell Structure: Introduction",
      body:"All living things are made of cells — they are the basic building blocks of life. Just as a house is built from many bricks, your body is built from trillions of tiny cells working together. Today we begin our study of cell structure.\n\nThe cell theory states three things: (1) All living things are made of one or more cells. (2) Cells are the basic unit of life. (3) All cells come from existing cells. This theory was developed over centuries as microscopes improved and scientists could see smaller and smaller structures.\n\nThere are two main types of cells: prokaryotic and eukaryotic. Prokaryotic cells are simple, with no nucleus — bacteria are prokaryotic. Eukaryotic cells are complex, with a nucleus that holds genetic material — plants, animals, and fungi are made of eukaryotic cells. In this unit, we focus on eukaryotic cells.\n\nEvery cell has three basic parts: the cell membrane, the cytoplasm, and the nucleus. The cell membrane is the outer boundary — think of it as the fence around a Liberian compound. It controls what enters and leaves the cell. The cytoplasm is the jelly-like substance inside — it is like the yard of the compound where activities happen. The nucleus is the control center — like the main house where important decisions are made.\n\nInside the cytoplasm, you find organelles — tiny structures with specific jobs. Mitochondria produce energy for the cell, like the generator that powers a Monrovia business during power outages. Ribosomes make proteins, which the cell needs to function and grow.\n\nCells come in many shapes and sizes depending on their function. Red blood cells are tiny and round to flow through blood vessels. Nerve cells are long and thin to transmit signals across your body. Muscle cells are elongated to contract and create movement.\n\nIn Liberia, understanding cells is essential for careers in medicine, agriculture, and environmental science. Doctors need to understand how disease affects cells. Agricultural scientists study plant cells to improve crop yields. This week we will explore cell structure in detail, comparing plant and animal cells and observing cells under a microscope.",
      objectives:["State the three parts of cell theory","Identify the basic parts of a cell: membrane, cytoplasm, and nucleus","Explain the functions of key cell organelles"],
      activities:["Label a cell diagram with basic parts and organelles","Build a 3D cell model analogy using classroom objects","Compare cell parts to parts of a Liberian compound in a matching activity"],
      homework:"Draw and label a basic eukaryotic cell with at least 5 parts. Write the function of each part.",
      assessQ:"What is the function of the cell membrane?",
      assessOpts:["A) Controls what enters and leaves the cell","B) Produces energy","C) Stores genetic information","D) Makes proteins"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
