lesson({ title:"History: Founding of Liberia",
      body:"Liberia has one of the most unique founding stories in Africa. It is one of only two African countries never colonized by European powers (the other is Ethiopia). Today we learn how Liberia was established and why its history matters to every Liberian.\n\nIn the early 1800s, a group called the American Colonization Society (ACS) was formed in the United States. Their plan was to send free Black Americans to West Africa. The reasons were complex — some members genuinely wanted to help free Black people find opportunities, while others wanted to remove free Black people from American society.\n\nIn 1822, the first group of settlers arrived on Providence Island, at the mouth of the Mesurado River, near present-day Monrovia. They faced enormous challenges: tropical diseases, unfamiliar terrain, and tensions with the indigenous peoples who had lived in the region for centuries — including the Kpelle, Bassa, Vai, Grebo, and many other groups.\n\nThe settlers established their main town and named it Monrovia, after James Monroe, the President of the United States who supported the colonization effort. Over the following years, more settlers arrived and established communities along the coast.\n\nOn July 26, 1847, the settlers declared independence and established the Republic of Liberia — the first republic in Africa. Joseph Jenkins Roberts became the first president. The Liberian Declaration of Independence was modeled on the American Declaration of Independence. The flag, with its single star on a blue field and 11 red and white stripes, was also inspired by the American flag.\n\nHowever, we must remember that Liberia's founding created tensions between the settlers (known as Americo-Liberians) and the indigenous population. For many decades, indigenous Liberians were not given equal rights or representation. Understanding this complex history helps us appreciate the importance of unity, equality, and justice for all Liberians today.\n\nLiberia's motto — 'The Love of Liberty Brought Us Here' — reminds us of the desire for freedom that motivated the founding. Today, all Liberians, whether descended from settlers or from indigenous communities, share this land and must build its future together.",
      objectives:["Explain why and how Liberia was founded in 1822","Identify key figures and events in Liberia's founding","Discuss the perspectives of both settlers and indigenous peoples"],
      activities:["Create a timeline of key events from 1822 to 1847","Role-play: settlers and indigenous leaders discuss the new settlement","Analyze the Liberian Declaration of Independence — find 3 key ideas"],
      homework:"Write a short paragraph answering: Why is it important for all Liberians to understand the founding of our country?",
      assessQ:"In what year did Liberia declare independence?",
      assessOpts:["A) 1847","B) 1822","C) 1776","D) 1900"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
