lesson({ title:"Writing: Literary Response",
      body:"This week we have been analyzing our novel — identifying story elements, analyzing characters, examining setting and conflict, and exploring theme. Today we learn to write a literary response — a formal piece of writing that presents your analysis of a text.\n\nA literary response is not a summary. Instead of retelling what happened, you present an argument about the text — an interpretation supported by evidence. For example, instead of writing 'The character went on a journey,' you write 'The character's journey symbolizes the struggle for self-discovery, as shown by three key moments in the text.'\n\nStructure of a literary response: (1) Introduction with a clear thesis statement — your main argument about the text. (2) Body paragraphs — each presents one point supporting your thesis, with textual evidence (direct quotes or specific references). (3) Conclusion — restates your thesis in light of the evidence and offers a final thought.\n\nWriting a thesis statement: Your thesis should be specific, arguable, and supportable. Weak: 'The novel is about a boy.' Strong: 'Through the protagonist's transformation from a fearful child to a courageous leader, the novel argues that adversity builds character.'\n\nUsing textual evidence: When you make a claim, back it up with a quote or specific reference. Use phrases like 'According to the text,' 'On page 32, the character states,' or 'This is evident when the author describes...' Always explain how the evidence supports your point.\n\nLiterary vocabulary to use: protagonist, antagonist, metaphor, symbolism, foreshadowing, irony, narrative voice, character development, climax, resolution. Using precise terminology shows sophisticated literary understanding.\n\nConnecting to Liberian experience: When appropriate, connect themes from the novel to Liberian contexts. If the novel explores community resilience, relate it to how Liberian communities rebuilt after conflict. These connections deepen your analysis.\n\nToday you will outline a literary response about our novel. Tomorrow you will write the full piece as your assessment.",
      objectives:["Write a clear thesis statement for a literary response","Support literary arguments with textual evidence","Structure a literary response with introduction, body paragraphs, and conclusion"],
      activities:["Draft thesis statements about our novel and peer-evaluate them","Practice embedding textual evidence into analytical paragraphs","Create an outline for a literary response essay about our novel"],
      homework:"Complete your outline for the literary response. Include thesis, 3 body paragraph topics, and 2 pieces of evidence each.",
      assessQ:"What is a thesis statement in a literary response?",
      assessOpts:["A) Your main argument or interpretation about the text","B) A summary of the story","C) A quote from the novel","D) The author's biography"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
