lesson({ title:"Reading Comprehension: Main Idea",
      body:"Every passage you read has a main idea — the most important point the author wants you to understand. Finding the main idea is like finding the biggest fish in the St. Paul River — everything else supports it, but that one idea is what matters most.\n\nThe main idea is different from the topic. The topic is the general subject — for example, 'Liberian markets.' The main idea is the specific point about that topic — for example, 'Liberian markets are important centers of community life where people trade goods, share news, and build friendships.'\n\nHow do you find the main idea? First, read the whole passage carefully. Then ask yourself: What is this mostly about? What one sentence could summarize everything? Often the main idea is stated in the first or last sentence of a paragraph, but not always. Sometimes you must figure it out from the details.\n\nLet us practice with a short passage: 'Every morning, Musu walks two miles from her village in Bong County to the nearest water pump. She carries a large bucket on her head. The walk takes thirty minutes each way. Many girls in rural Liberia spend hours each day collecting water for their families. This time could be spent studying or playing.'\n\nWhat is the main idea? It is not just 'Musu gets water.' The main idea is that many Liberian girls spend too much time collecting water, and this affects their other activities like schooling.\n\nSupporting details help prove or explain the main idea. In our passage, the details about two miles, thirty minutes, and the large bucket all support the main idea by showing how difficult and time-consuming the task is.\n\nWhen you read any passage — whether in your textbook, a newspaper like the Daily Observer, or a letter — always pause and ask: What is the main message here? This skill will help you in every subject, from science to social studies.\n\nToday we will read three passages about Liberian life and practice finding the main idea and supporting details in each one. You will become stronger readers, one passage at a time!",
      objectives:["Distinguish between topic and main idea in a passage","Identify the main idea in paragraphs about Liberian life","Find supporting details that connect to the main idea"],
      activities:["Read a passage about Monrovia and highlight the main idea sentence","Sort detail cards into 'main idea' and 'supporting detail' categories","Write the main idea of a partner's spoken story in one sentence"],
      homework:"Read a short article from any source and write down the main idea and two supporting details.",
      assessQ:"What is the difference between a topic and a main idea?",
      assessOpts:["A) A topic is the general subject; a main idea is the specific point about it","B) They mean the same thing","C) A topic is longer than a main idea","D) A main idea comes first in the passage"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
