lesson({ title:"Vocabulary: Context Clues",
      body:"When you encounter an unfamiliar word while reading, you do not always need a dictionary. Often, the surrounding words and sentences — the context — give you clues about the word's meaning. This skill is called using context clues.\n\nThere are several types of context clues. Definition clues directly tell you what the word means. Example: 'Photosynthesis, the process by which plants make food from sunlight, is essential for life.' The definition is built right into the sentence.\n\nSynonym clues use a familiar word that means the same thing. Example: 'The resilient community was strong and able to recover from the flood.' 'Strong and able to recover' is a synonym clue for 'resilient.'\n\nAntonym clues use a word with the opposite meaning. Example: 'Unlike the affluent neighborhoods of Sinkor, some areas of Monrovia face poverty and limited resources.' 'Poverty' is an antonym clue — affluent means wealthy.\n\nExample clues give instances of the word's meaning. 'Indigenous animals of Liberia, such as pygmy hippos, forest elephants, and chimpanzees, are protected by conservation laws.' The examples help you understand that 'indigenous' means native to the area.\n\nInference clues require you to use the overall meaning of the passage. 'After weeks without rain, the crops began to wither. Farmers looked anxiously at the cloudless sky.' From the context, you can infer that 'wither' means to dry up and weaken.\n\nHere is a strategy for using context clues: (1) Read the entire sentence containing the unknown word. (2) Look for clue words or phrases nearby. (3) Think about what word would make sense in that spot. (4) Substitute your guess and check if the sentence still makes sense. (5) If still unsure, read the surrounding sentences for more clues.\n\nBuilding your vocabulary through context clues is a skill you will use every day — in school, when reading newspapers, and in future careers. The more you practice, the more words you will learn naturally from reading.",
      objectives:["Identify five types of context clues: definition, synonym, antonym, example, and inference","Use context clues to determine the meaning of unfamiliar words","Apply context clue strategies independently while reading"],
      activities:["Identify the type of context clue in 10 sample sentences","Determine word meanings using context clues from passages about Liberia","Create sentences that provide context clues for vocabulary words"],
      homework:"Find 5 unfamiliar words in your reading. Use context clues to guess each meaning, then verify with a dictionary.",
      assessQ:"What type of context clue gives the opposite meaning of the unknown word?",
      assessOpts:["A) Antonym clue","B) Synonym clue","C) Definition clue","D) Example clue"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
