lesson({ title:"Map Reading: County Capitals",
      body:"Yesterday we identified Liberia's 15 counties on the map. Today we learn the capital city of each county and practice locating them. A county capital is the main city where the county government operates, similar to how Monrovia is the capital of all Liberia.\n\nLet us learn the 15 counties and their capitals: Montserrado — Bensonville (though Monrovia, the national capital, is also in Montserrado). Margibi — Kakata. Bomi — Tubmanburg. Grand Cape Mount — Robertsport. Bong — Gbarnga. Lofa — Voinjama. Nimba — Sanniquellie. Grand Bassa — Buchanan. River Cess — Cestos City. Sinoe — Greenville. Grand Gedeh — Zwedru. River Gee — Fish Town. Grand Kru — Barclayville. Maryland — Harper. Gbarpolu — Bopolu.\n\nEach capital tells a story about its county. Gbarnga, the capital of Bong County, is a major crossroads for travel between Monrovia and the interior. Buchanan, capital of Grand Bassa, has Liberia's second-largest port and is vital for exporting goods. Voinjama, capital of Lofa County, sits in Liberia's northernmost region near the borders with Guinea and Sierra Leone.\n\nTo locate capitals on a map, look for special symbols. Most maps use a star or a dot with a circle to mark capital cities. Regular cities might use a simple dot. Check the map legend to confirm which symbol means what.\n\nDistances between capitals help us understand Liberia's size. From Monrovia to Gbarnga is about 200 kilometers. From Monrovia to Zwedru in Grand Gedeh County is over 400 kilometers — a long journey on Liberia's roads, especially during rainy season.\n\nKnowing county capitals is important for every Liberian citizen. When you hear news about development projects, elections, or health programs, the county capital is usually where these activities are centered. Government offices, hospitals, and secondary schools are often located in or near the capital city.\n\nToday we will practice locating all 15 capitals on the map, measuring distances between them, and understanding why certain cities became capitals based on their geographic advantages.",
      objectives:["Name the capital city of each of Liberia's 15 counties","Locate county capitals on a map using map symbols","Explain the geographic importance of at least 5 county capitals"],
      activities:["Flash card quiz: match counties to their capitals in teams","Measure distances between capitals using the map scale","Create a 'County Capitals fact sheet' with one fact per capital"],
      homework:"Memorize all 15 county-capital pairs. Write each pair three times. Draw a map with capitals marked.",
      assessQ:"What is the capital of Bong County?",
      assessOpts:["A) Gbarnga","B) Buchanan","C) Kakata","D) Voinjama"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
