lesson({ title:"Writing: Topic Sentences",
      body:"Yesterday we learned about paragraph structure. Today we focus on the most important sentence in any paragraph: the topic sentence. A strong topic sentence is like the foundation of a house — everything else rests on it.\n\nA good topic sentence has two parts: the topic (what you are writing about) and the controlling idea (what you will say about it). In the sentence 'Liberian jollof rice is delicious because of its unique blend of spices,' the topic is 'Liberian jollof rice' and the controlling idea is 'delicious because of unique spices.' Every sentence in the paragraph should relate to this controlling idea.\n\nWeak topic sentences are too broad or too narrow. 'Food' is too broad — what about food? 'Jollof rice contains tomatoes' is too narrow — you cannot write a whole paragraph about just that. 'Liberian jollof rice has become a symbol of celebration across the country' is just right — specific enough to guide the paragraph but broad enough to develop.\n\nLet us practice improving topic sentences. Weak: 'Monrovia is a city.' Better: 'Monrovia, Liberia's capital, is a vibrant city that blends modern development with deep cultural traditions.' The improved version gives the reader a clear direction.\n\nWeak: 'Schools are important.' Better: 'Education in rural Liberia faces unique challenges that require creative solutions from teachers and communities.' This tells the reader exactly what the paragraph will discuss.\n\nTips for writing strong topic sentences: (1) Be specific — avoid vague words like 'nice,' 'good,' or 'interesting.' (2) State an idea that can be developed — not just a fact. (3) Use strong, clear language. (4) Place it first in your paragraph so readers immediately know your focus.\n\nAvoid these common mistakes: Do not write a question as your topic sentence. Do not start with 'I am going to write about...' Do not include too many ideas in one sentence.\n\nA strong topic sentence makes the rest of the paragraph easier to write. Once you know your main point, supporting details flow naturally. Think of the topic sentence as your compass — it keeps your writing on track.\n\nToday you will practice writing topic sentences for various Liberian topics, then get feedback from your classmates on clarity and strength.",
      objectives:["Write topic sentences with clear topics and controlling ideas","Distinguish between strong and weak topic sentences","Use topic sentences to guide paragraph development"],
      activities:["Evaluate 10 topic sentences as strong or weak and improve the weak ones","Write topic sentences for 5 given topics about Liberian culture and life","Peer review: exchange topic sentences and give constructive feedback"],
      homework:"Write 5 strong topic sentences for paragraphs about: your school, a Liberian hero, a local market, your favorite food, and a county you want to visit.",
      assessQ:"What two parts should a good topic sentence have?",
      assessOpts:["A) A topic and a controlling idea","B) A question and an answer","C) A noun and a verb","D) A name and a date"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
