lesson({ title:"Novel Study: Character Analysis",
      body:"Yesterday we identified the story elements in our novel's first chapter. Today we go deeper into character analysis — understanding who the characters are, what motivates them, and how they change.\n\nCharacter analysis goes beyond physical description. We examine characters through four dimensions: what they say (dialogue), what they do (actions), what they think (thoughts), and what others say about them. These reveal a character's personality, values, and motivations.\n\nProtagonists are usually round characters — complex, realistic, with strengths and flaws. They change over the course of the story. A round character might be a young Liberian student who starts the story shy and afraid but grows brave through challenges. Flat characters are simpler — they have one or two traits and do not change much. They often serve a supporting role.\n\nMotivation is what drives a character's actions. Why does a character make certain choices? A mother in a Liberian village might sacrifice her savings to send her daughter to school — her motivation is hope for her daughter's future. Understanding motivation helps us predict what characters will do next.\n\nCharacters can be static (unchanging) or dynamic (changing). A dynamic character learns something, overcomes a fear, or changes their beliefs. The best stories show characters growing, just as we grow from our experiences.\n\nTo analyze a character, gather evidence from the text. Use direct quotes and specific examples. Do not just say 'She is brave' — say 'She is brave because on page 15, she stood up to the bullies even though she was afraid.'\n\nAs you read tonight, pay close attention to the main character. What does this character want? What obstacles do they face? What choices do they make and why? Write notes in the margins or on sticky notes. Active reading makes analysis easier.\n\nGood character analysis also connects to our own lives. How are the characters similar to people you know in your community? What would you do in their situation? These connections make literature meaningful.",
      objectives:["Analyze characters through their dialogue, actions, thoughts, and others' descriptions","Distinguish between round/flat and static/dynamic characters","Identify character motivation and how it drives the plot"],
      activities:["Complete a character analysis chart for the protagonist from Chapters 1-2","Find textual evidence for 3 character traits of the main character","Discuss: compare the protagonist's challenges to those of a young Liberian"],
      homework:"Read Chapters 2-3. Write a character analysis paragraph about the protagonist: 3 traits with evidence.",
      assessQ:"What type of character is complex, realistic, and changes throughout the story?",
      assessOpts:["A) A round, dynamic character","B) A flat character","C) A static character","D) An antagonist"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
