lesson({ title:"Cell Structure: Plant vs Animal Cells",
      body:"Yesterday we learned that all cells have a membrane, cytoplasm, and nucleus. Today we discover the key differences between plant cells and animal cells. Both are eukaryotic, but they have important structural differences related to their functions.\n\nPlant cells have everything animal cells have, PLUS three additional structures: a cell wall, chloroplasts, and a large central vacuole.\n\nThe cell wall is a rigid outer layer made of cellulose that surrounds the cell membrane. It gives plant cells their rectangular shape and provides structural support — like the concrete walls of buildings in Monrovia. This is why plants can stand upright. Animal cells have no cell wall, so they are softer and more rounded.\n\nChloroplasts are organelles that contain chlorophyll — the green pigment that captures sunlight for photosynthesis. Photosynthesis is how plants make their own food using sunlight, water, and carbon dioxide. This is why most plants are green! Think of Liberia's lush rainforests — all that green comes from chloroplasts in billions of plant cells. Animal cells do not have chloroplasts because animals get energy by eating food rather than making it from sunlight.\n\nThe large central vacuole in plant cells stores water, nutrients, and waste. When full of water, it pushes against the cell wall, making the plant firm (turgid). When the vacuole loses water, the plant wilts — you see this when flowers or vegetables are left out in the hot Monrovia sun. Animal cells have smaller vacuoles that serve different functions.\n\nBoth plant and animal cells share these organelles: nucleus (control center), mitochondria (energy production), ribosomes (protein building), endoplasmic reticulum (transport network), and Golgi apparatus (packaging and shipping).\n\nA helpful comparison: Plant cells are like a walled compound with a garden (they make their own food and have rigid walls). Animal cells are like a flexible tent that must find food outside (no walls, no food production, flexible shape).\n\nUnderstanding these differences has practical applications. Farmers in Liberia who understand plant cells can better understand why crops need sunlight and water. Medical professionals who understand animal cells can better treat diseases.",
      objectives:["Compare and contrast the structures of plant and animal cells","Explain the functions of cell wall, chloroplasts, and central vacuole","Draw and label both plant and animal cells accurately"],
      activities:["Create a Venn diagram comparing plant and animal cells","Draw and label both cell types side by side","Build a comparison table: organelle, plant cell (yes/no), animal cell (yes/no), function"],
      homework:"Draw a labeled plant cell and a labeled animal cell. Write 3 sentences explaining the key differences.",
      assessQ:"Which organelle is found in plant cells but NOT in animal cells?",
      assessOpts:["A) Chloroplast","B) Mitochondria","C) Nucleus","D) Ribosome"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
