lesson({ title:"States of Matter: Liquids",
      body:"Yesterday we studied solids and their fixed shapes. Today we explore the second state of matter: liquids. A liquid has a definite volume but takes the shape of its container. Pour water from a cup into a bowl — the amount stays the same, but the shape changes to fill the bowl.\n\nIn a liquid, particles are close together but not locked in fixed positions. They can slide past each other, which is why liquids flow. Think of the St. Paul River flowing through Montserrado County — the water particles move and flow around rocks, bends, and obstacles while staying together as a body of water.\n\nLiquids are essential to life in Liberia. Water from our rivers — the Cavalla, the Lofa, the Mano — provides drinking water, irrigation for farms, and transport routes. Palm oil, one of Liberia's most important products, is a liquid at room temperature. The latex that comes from rubber trees on plantations in Margibi and Bong counties is also a liquid.\n\nLiquids have special properties. Viscosity describes how easily a liquid flows. Water has low viscosity — it flows quickly. Palm oil has higher viscosity — it flows more slowly. Honey is even more viscous. Temperature affects viscosity: when you heat palm oil, it becomes less viscous and flows more easily. This is why cooks warm palm oil before measuring it.\n\nSurface tension is another property of liquids. Water molecules at the surface hold tightly together, creating a thin 'skin.' This is why small insects can walk on water and why water drops on a leaf form round beads instead of spreading flat.\n\nLiquids also exert pressure in all directions. The deeper you go in water, the greater the pressure. Fishermen along the Liberian coast know that fish at different depths experience different pressures.\n\nUnderstanding liquids helps us in many ways — from cooking with palm butter and coconut oil, to understanding why the rainy season brings flooding when rivers overflow their banks, to knowing why we store liquids in closed containers to prevent spills and evaporation.",
      objectives:["Describe the properties of liquids including shape, volume, and flow","Explain viscosity and how temperature affects it","Compare liquid particle arrangement to solid particle arrangement"],
      activities:["Compare the viscosity of water, palm oil, and honey by timing their flow","Observe surface tension by floating a needle on water","Draw particle diagrams for liquids and compare with yesterday's solid diagrams"],
      homework:"List 8 liquids found in your home. Rank them from least viscous to most viscous.",
      assessQ:"What happens to the shape of a liquid when poured into a different container?",
      assessOpts:["A) It takes the shape of the new container","B) It keeps its original shape","C) It becomes a solid","D) It disappears"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
