lesson({ title:"Novel Study: Theme & Message",
      body:"We have analyzed characters, setting, and conflict in our novel. Today we explore the deepest element — theme. The theme is the underlying message or lesson that the author conveys through the story. It is what the story really means beyond its surface events.\n\nTheme is different from topic. The topic is the subject matter — 'growing up' or 'friendship.' The theme is the specific message about that topic — 'True friends support you even when it is difficult' or 'Growing up means learning to make responsible choices.'\n\nThemes are usually not stated directly. Instead, the author reveals theme through characters' experiences, the resolution of conflicts, and recurring patterns. You must infer the theme by asking: What does the main character learn? How does the conflict resolve? What message is the author sending about life?\n\nCommon themes in literature include: courage in the face of adversity, the importance of family and community, the power of education, the consequences of greed or dishonesty, hope versus despair, and the journey from innocence to experience.\n\nIn Liberian literature and folk tales, common themes include: the power of community unity, respect for elders and tradition, the cleverness of the underdog (as in Anansi stories), the importance of perseverance, and the role of education in overcoming poverty.\n\nTo identify theme, look for these clues: (1) How does the main character change? What lesson do they learn? (2) What does the title suggest? (3) Are there repeated ideas, symbols, or phrases? (4) What moral or message does the resolution convey? (5) What do characters say about life, fairness, or human nature?\n\nA novel may have more than one theme. The primary theme is the central message, while secondary themes add layers of meaning. A story about a girl's journey to school might have the primary theme 'Education empowers' and a secondary theme 'Community support is essential for individual success.'\n\nAs you read the remaining chapters tonight, think about what larger message this story is conveying about life. What truth does the author want you to carry with you after the last page?",
      objectives:["Distinguish between topic and theme in literature","Identify themes by analyzing characters, conflicts, and resolutions","Support theme statements with evidence from the text"],
      activities:["Write theme statements for familiar Liberian folk tales","Trace how the protagonist's change reveals the novel's theme","Group discussion: what themes have emerged in our novel so far?"],
      homework:"Read Chapters 4-5. Write a theme statement for the novel so far, supported by 3 pieces of evidence from the text.",
      assessQ:"How is theme different from topic?",
      assessOpts:["A) Theme is the message about the topic; topic is the general subject","B) They are the same thing","C) Topic is more specific than theme","D) Theme is always stated directly in the text"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
