lesson({ title:"States of Matter: Solids",
      body:"Everything around us is made of matter — the desks in our classroom, the water in the St. John River, and even the air we breathe. Matter exists in three main states: solid, liquid, and gas. Today we focus on solids.\n\nA solid has a definite shape and a definite volume. Pick up your pencil — it keeps its shape whether you place it on your desk or in your bag. A rock from the beach in Buchanan stays the same shape no matter where you put it. This is because the tiny particles (molecules) in a solid are packed tightly together and vibrate in fixed positions. They do not move freely.\n\nSolids in Liberia are everywhere. The laterite soil that gives our roads their red color is a solid. The iron ore mined in Nimba County is a solid — it is one of Liberia's most important natural resources. The wood from our tropical forests — mahogany, walnut, and obeche — are all solids used for building houses, carving crafts, and making charcoal.\n\nSolids have special properties we can observe and measure. Hardness tells us how resistant a solid is to scratching — diamond is the hardest natural solid, while chalk is very soft. Texture describes how a solid feels — smooth like polished wood or rough like laterite gravel. Flexibility tells us if a solid can bend — rubber from Firestone Plantation in Margibi County is flexible, but a piece of iron ore is rigid.\n\nSome solids are crystalline, meaning their particles are arranged in a regular pattern. Table salt and sugar crystals are examples. Other solids are amorphous — their particles have no regular arrangement. Glass and rubber are amorphous solids.\n\nUnderstanding solids helps us in practical ways. Builders choose strong solids like concrete and steel for constructing buildings in Monrovia. Farmers know that compact soil (a dense solid) is harder for crops to grow in than loose, aerated soil. Even the simple act of choosing between a wooden spoon and a metal spoon for cooking palm butter involves understanding solid properties!\n\nToday we will examine different solids, describe their properties, and begin to understand why solids behave the way they do.",
      objectives:["Define what a solid is and describe its key properties","Explain how particles are arranged in solids","Classify common Liberian materials as crystalline or amorphous solids"],
      activities:["Examine 6 solid objects and record their hardness, texture, and flexibility","Draw particle diagrams showing tight molecular arrangement in solids","Sort classroom objects into crystalline vs amorphous categories"],
      homework:"List 10 solids you find at home. Describe two properties of each (hard/soft, rough/smooth, flexible/rigid).",
      assessQ:"Why does a solid keep its shape?",
      assessOpts:["A) Its particles are tightly packed and vibrate in fixed positions","B) It is always heavy","C) It has no particles","D) Its particles move freely"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
