lesson({ title:"Writing: Paragraph Structure",
      body:"A well-written paragraph is like a well-built Liberian house — it needs a strong foundation, sturdy walls, and a good roof. In writing, the foundation is the topic sentence, the walls are the supporting sentences, and the roof is the concluding sentence.\n\nThe topic sentence tells the reader what the paragraph is about. It is usually the first sentence and states the main idea clearly. For example: 'Monrovia's Waterside Market is one of the busiest trading centers in West Africa.' This topic sentence tells us exactly what to expect in the paragraph.\n\nSupporting sentences develop the topic sentence with details, examples, facts, and explanations. They answer questions the reader might have. After our topic sentence about Waterside Market, supporting sentences might include: 'Over 2,000 traders sell goods there daily. You can find everything from fresh fish and vegetables to imported electronics and clothing. The market is located near the Mesurado River, making it accessible by both road and water.'\n\nEach supporting sentence should connect to the topic sentence. If a sentence does not relate to the main idea, it does not belong in the paragraph. A sentence about the weather in Nimba County would not fit in a paragraph about Waterside Market.\n\nTransition words connect ideas smoothly. Use words like 'first,' 'also,' 'in addition,' 'however,' 'for example,' and 'finally' to guide your reader from one idea to the next. These words are like the paths connecting different sections of a market.\n\nThe concluding sentence wraps up the paragraph. It restates the main idea in different words or makes a final comment. For our market paragraph: 'With its variety of goods and central location, Waterside Market truly serves as the heart of Monrovia's commerce.'\n\nGood paragraphs also have unity (every sentence relates to one idea) and coherence (sentences are in a logical order). When you write, ask yourself: Does every sentence support my topic sentence? Are my ideas in an order that makes sense?\n\nToday we will practice building paragraphs piece by piece, like a master carpenter building a house — one strong beam at a time.",
      objectives:["Identify the three parts of a paragraph: topic, supporting, and concluding sentences","Write a topic sentence that clearly states the main idea","Organize supporting details in a logical order using transition words"],
      activities:["Rearrange scrambled sentences into a proper paragraph","Write a topic sentence for three given topics about Liberian life","Add transition words to improve the flow of a sample paragraph"],
      homework:"Write a complete paragraph (5-7 sentences) about your favorite place in Liberia. Include a topic sentence, 3-4 supporting sentences with transitions, and a concluding sentence.",
      assessQ:"What does a topic sentence do?",
      assessOpts:["A) States the main idea of the paragraph","B) Ends the paragraph","C) Provides a detail or example","D) Connects two paragraphs"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
