lesson({ title:"Novel Study: Setting & Conflict",
      body:"As we continue reading our novel, today we analyze setting and conflict more deeply. These elements work together to create tension and drive the story forward.\n\nSetting is more than just a backdrop — it actively shapes the story. A story set during Liberia's rainy season creates different challenges than one set in the dry season. A story set in bustling Monrovia feels different from one in a quiet village in Lofa County. Authors choose settings deliberately to influence mood, create obstacles, and reflect characters' inner states.\n\nConsider how setting creates mood. A dark, stormy night creates tension and unease. A bright morning at the beach in Robertsport creates hope and freedom. When the setting matches a character's emotions, it is called pathetic fallacy — the environment reflects inner feelings.\n\nNow let us examine conflict. The four types we discussed Monday — person vs. person, person vs. nature, person vs. society, and person vs. self — often overlap in complex stories. A young Liberian girl might struggle against a bully (person vs. person), floods during rainy season (person vs. nature), a tradition that says girls should not attend school (person vs. society), and her own self-doubt (person vs. self) — all in the same story!\n\nConflict creates the plot structure. The initial conflict introduces tension in the exposition. As complications arise, tension builds through the rising action. The climax is the moment of greatest tension, where the conflict reaches a turning point. The falling action shows the consequences, and the resolution shows how the conflict is (or is not) resolved.\n\nIn our novel, identify how the setting creates challenges for the characters. Does the location limit their options? Does the time period affect their rights or opportunities? Then trace the conflicts: what is the main conflict? Are there secondary conflicts? How do they connect?\n\nUnderstanding setting and conflict together helps you predict what will happen next and appreciate the author's craft. Every choice an author makes about where and when to set a story affects the entire narrative.",
      objectives:["Analyze how setting influences mood, plot, and character actions","Identify multiple types of conflict operating simultaneously in a story","Connect setting and conflict to explain plot development"],
      activities:["Map the setting details from our novel onto a story map","Identify all conflicts in Chapters 1-3 and classify by type","Write a paragraph analyzing how the setting creates challenges for the protagonist"],
      homework:"Read Chapters 3-4. Write about how the setting creates or worsens the main conflict.",
      assessQ:"When the environment in a story reflects a character's emotions, this is called:",
      assessOpts:["A) Pathetic fallacy","B) Plot development","C) Character analysis","D) Rising action"],
      assessAns:"A"
    })
