lesson({ title:"Phonics & Spelling Patterns", body:"Today we review important phonics rules and spelling patterns that will help you read and spell better. Phonics is the connection between letters and sounds. When you know the patterns, you can decode (read) and encode (spell) new words.\n\nLet us start with vowel teams — two vowels that make one sound. The rule 'when two vowels go walking, the first one does the talking' works for many words: rain (ai makes long a), boat (oa makes long o), team (ea makes long e). But there are exceptions — 'bread' and 'head' have ea making a short e sound.\n\nConsonant blends are two or three consonants together where you hear each sound: bl in 'black,' str in 'street,' fl in 'flag.' Consonant digraphs are two consonants that make one NEW sound: sh in 'ship,' ch in 'church,' th in 'the,' ph in 'phone.'\n\nThe silent e rule: When a word ends in consonant + e, the e is silent and makes the vowel before it say its name. Compare: cap â†’ cape, hop â†’ hope, kit â†’ kite. This is one of the most useful spelling rules!\n\nDouble consonant patterns: When adding -ing or -ed to a short vowel word, double the final consonant: run â†’ running, hop â†’ hopping, plan â†’ planned. But if the vowel is long (with silent e), drop the e and add the suffix: make â†’ making, hope â†’ hoping.\n\nPrefixes and suffixes change word meanings. The prefix 'un-' means not: unhappy, unfair, unable. The suffix '-ful' means full of: helpful, beautiful, peaceful. The suffix '-less' means without: homeless, careless, hopeless.\n\nThese patterns appear in Liberian English just as in any English. When you see a new word at school or in the market, use these patterns to figure out how to read it. Practice makes these patterns automatic — soon you will read and spell without even thinking about the rules!", objectives:["Apply vowel team and silent e rules to read and spell words","Identify consonant blends and digraphs in words","Use prefixes and suffixes to understand and build new words"], activities:["Sort words by phonics pattern: vowel teams, blends, digraphs","Word building with prefix/suffix cards","Spelling race: teams spell words using patterns learned today"], homework:"Write 3 words for each pattern: vowel teams, silent e, double consonant, and one prefix and one suffix.", assessQ:"Which word follows the silent e rule?", assessOpts:["A) cape","B) cap","C) cat","D) can"], assessAns:"A" })
