lesson({ title:"Living Things: Animals", body:"On Monday we learned the characteristics of life. Tuesday we studied plants. Today we explore animals — living things that cannot make their own food and must eat other organisms for energy.\n\nAnimals are divided into two main groups: vertebrates (with backbones) and invertebrates (without backbones). About 97% of all animal species are invertebrates!\n\nVertebrates include five classes: Fish live in water and breathe through gills. Liberia's rivers and coast are home to many fish species — tilapia, catfish, barracuda. Amphibians live in water and on land — frogs and toads are common near Liberian streams. Reptiles have scaly skin — crocodiles, lizards, and snakes live throughout Liberia. Birds have feathers and most can fly — hornbills, weaverbirds, and the African grey parrot are found in Liberia. Mammals have fur or hair and feed their young with milk — including humans, chimpanzees, pygmy hippopotamus, and forest elephants.\n\nLiberia is home to unique animals found nowhere else. The pygmy hippopotamus, Liberia's national symbol, lives in the swamps and forests of our country. It is much smaller than the common hippo and is endangered — there may be fewer than 3,000 left in the wild. The western chimpanzee also lives in Liberia's forests.\n\nAnimals show all seven characteristics of life. They move (walk, swim, fly), respire (breathe to get energy), are sensitive (react to danger, find food), grow (from babies to adults), reproduce (lay eggs or give birth), excrete (remove waste), and get nutrition (eat food).\n\nInvertebrates include insects (the most diverse group — butterflies, ants, beetles), spiders, worms, crabs, and snails. Many invertebrates are essential for farming — bees pollinate crops, earthworms enrich soil.\n\nProtecting Liberia's animals is important for our environment and culture. Sapo National Park and other protected areas help preserve our unique wildlife for future generations.", objectives:["Classify animals as vertebrates or invertebrates","Name the five classes of vertebrates with Liberian examples","Explain why animal conservation matters in Liberia"], activities:["Sort animal pictures into vertebrate classes: fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals","Create a Liberian wildlife poster featuring 5 native animals","Research the pygmy hippopotamus and present 5 facts to the class"], homework:"List 10 animals you have seen in Liberia. Classify each as vertebrate or invertebrate and identify the class for vertebrates.", assessQ:"Which animal is Liberia's national symbol?", assessOpts:["A) Pygmy hippopotamus","B) Lion","C) Eagle","D) Elephant"], assessAns:"A" })
