lesson({ title:"Living Things: Plants", body:"Yesterday we learned the seven characteristics of life. Today we study plants — living things that are essential to life in Liberia and across the world.\n\nPlants are unique because they make their own food through photosynthesis. Using sunlight, water, and carbon dioxide from the air, plants produce glucose (sugar) and oxygen. The equation is: sunlight + water + carbon dioxide â†’ glucose + oxygen. This process happens in the leaves, where a green pigment called chlorophyll captures sunlight.\n\nPlants have specialized parts, each with an important function. Roots anchor the plant in soil and absorb water and minerals. In Liberia, cassava roots are one of our most important food crops — the thick root stores starch that we eat. Stems support the plant and transport water and nutrients between roots and leaves. The trunk of a rubber tree is a stem that can grow for decades. Leaves are the main site of photosynthesis — they capture sunlight and exchange gases through tiny pores called stomata. Flowers are the reproductive parts of many plants — they produce seeds that grow into new plants.\n\nLiberia's plants are incredibly diverse. Our tropical rainforest contains hundreds of tree species, including mahogany, iroko, and silk-cotton trees. Food plants like cassava, rice, plantain, and palm fruit are staples of Liberian diet. Cash crops like rubber, cocoa, and coffee are important for our economy. Medicinal plants have been used by Liberian healers for generations.\n\nPlants show all seven characteristics of life: They move (grow toward light), respire (convert glucose to energy in cells), are sensitive (respond to light, water, and gravity), grow (from seed to adult), reproduce (through seeds, spores, or cuttings), excrete (release oxygen and water vapor), and need nutrition (make food through photosynthesis).\n\nPlants are vital for our planet. They produce the oxygen we breathe, provide food for animals and humans, prevent soil erosion, and help regulate climate. Liberia's rainforests are especially important for absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.", objectives:["Explain the process of photosynthesis in simple terms","Identify the main parts of a plant and their functions","Describe the importance of plants to Liberian life and the environment"], activities:["Label a plant diagram with roots, stem, leaves, and flowers","Observe a potted plant and identify its parts and characteristics of life","Group research: present on one important Liberian plant (cassava, rubber, palm, or rice)"], homework:"Draw a plant and label all parts. Write the function of each part. Explain why plants are important to your community.", assessQ:"What do plants use to make their own food?", assessOpts:["A) Sunlight, water, and carbon dioxide","B) Soil and rocks","C) Other plants","D) Rain only"], assessAns:"A" })
