lesson({ title:"Our Community: Roles & Responsibilities", body:"A community is a group of people who live, work, and share life together. In Liberia, our communities are strong — from the bustling neighborhoods of Paynesville to the villages of our rural counties. Today we learn about the different roles people play and the responsibilities that come with each role.\n\nEvery community member has roles — positions or jobs that help the community function. Parents provide food, shelter, and guidance for their children. Teachers educate the next generation. Market women and men trade goods that everyone needs. Chiefs and elders settle disputes and preserve traditions. Health workers treat the sick. Farmers grow the food we eat.\n\nIn Paynesville, where our school is located, you can see many community roles. The police officer directing traffic at Red Light keeps people safe. The nurse at the health clinic treats malaria and other illnesses. The motorcycle taxi (pen-pen) driver provides transportation. The palm oil seller at the market provides cooking ingredients. Each person contributes something valuable.\n\nWith roles come responsibilities — duties we must fulfill. Students have the responsibility to study hard, respect teachers, and help at home. Parents must provide for their families and set good examples. Community leaders must be honest, fair, and work for the benefit of everyone — not just themselves.\n\nRights and responsibilities go together. You have the right to education, but the responsibility to attend school and do your best. You have the right to a clean environment, but the responsibility not to litter. When everyone fulfills their responsibilities, the whole community benefits.\n\nYoung people also have important roles. You can help at home, participate in community clean-ups, tutor younger students, and be a positive role model. Even small actions like greeting your elders respectfully and helping a neighbor carry water make your community stronger.\n\nThis week we will explore how communities are organized, how local government works, and how markets bring people together. Understanding your community helps you become an active, responsible citizen of Liberia.", objectives:["Identify different roles people play in a community","Explain the responsibilities that come with each role","Describe how individual contributions strengthen the whole community"], activities:["Draw a community map showing people in different roles","Role-play: act out different community roles and their responsibilities","Interview activity: prepare questions to ask a community member about their role"], homework:"Interview a family or community member about their role. Write 5 questions and answers about what they do and why it matters.", assessQ:"What is a responsibility of a student?", assessOpts:["A) To study hard and respect teachers","B) To collect taxes","C) To drive taxis","D) To sell at the market"], assessAns:"A" })
