lesson({ title:"Our Community: Local Government", body:"Every community in Liberia has a system of governance — rules and leaders that help people live together peacefully. Today we learn about local government and how it works in our communities.\n\nLiberia's government operates at several levels. The national government in Monrovia is led by the President and the Legislature. But local government is what affects our daily lives most directly. At the county level, each of Liberia's 15 counties has a Superintendent appointed by the President. Districts within counties have District Commissioners.\n\nAt the community level, traditional leaders play important roles. Town chiefs, clan chiefs, and paramount chiefs help settle disputes, organize community activities, and maintain peace. These leaders are respected for their wisdom and knowledge of local customs and traditions.\n\nIn Paynesville, we have both formal government structures and community-based organizations. The Paynesville City Corporation manages services for our area. Community members participate through town hall meetings, community development committees, and parent-teacher associations (PTAs) at schools.\n\nLocal government provides important services: maintaining roads, managing markets, providing clean water (where possible), organizing sanitation, and supporting schools and health clinics. When the road to Red Light Market has potholes, it is local government's responsibility to fix them.\n\nCitizens have both rights and responsibilities in local governance. You have the right to participate in community meetings and express your views. You have the responsibility to follow community rules, pay any required fees or taxes, and contribute to community development.\n\nYoung people can participate too! Attend community meetings with your parents, join school clubs, participate in community clean-up days, and respect community leaders. Today's students are tomorrow's leaders — learning about governance now prepares you for leadership in the future.", objectives:["Describe the structure of local government in Liberia","Explain the roles of traditional leaders and formal government","Identify ways citizens can participate in local governance"], activities:["Draw an organizational chart of local government from President to town chief","Role-play a community meeting discussing a local issue","List 5 services your local government provides and rate their effectiveness"], homework:"Ask a parent or elder about how community decisions are made. Write a paragraph about what you learned.", assessQ:"Who leads a Liberian county?", assessOpts:["A) A Superintendent","B) A Mayor","C) A President","D) A Governor"], assessAns:"A" })
