lesson({ title:"Writing: Sentences & Fragments", body:"A complete sentence is the building block of all good writing. Today we learn to identify complete sentences and fix sentence fragments — incomplete sentences that are missing something.\n\nA complete sentence needs two things: a subject (who or what the sentence is about) and a predicate (what the subject does or is). It must express a complete thought. 'The students study hard.' Subject: the students. Predicate: study hard. Complete thought: yes!\n\nA sentence fragment is a group of words that looks like a sentence but is missing the subject, the predicate, or does not express a complete thought. 'Running to the market.' — This is a fragment because there is no subject. Who is running? 'The tall boy with the blue shirt.' — Fragment: no predicate. What did the boy do?\n\n'Because she was hungry.' — This is a fragment even though it has a subject (she) and a predicate (was hungry). The word 'because' makes it a dependent clause — it depends on another sentence to complete its meaning. Fix it: 'She ate rice because she was hungry.'\n\nHow to fix fragments: Add the missing part. Fragment: 'Walking to school every morning.' â†’ Sentence: 'Fatu walks to school every morning.' Fragment: 'The market near Red Light.' â†’ Sentence: 'The market near Red Light is always busy.'\n\nFour types of sentences: Declarative (makes a statement, ends with a period): 'Liberia is in West Africa.' Interrogative (asks a question, ends with a question mark): 'Where is Paynesville?' Imperative (gives a command): 'Open your books.' Exclamatory (shows strong feeling, ends with an exclamation mark): 'What a beautiful day!'\n\nEvery sentence starts with a capital letter and ends with the correct punctuation mark. Check every sentence you write: Does it have a subject? A predicate? Does it express a complete thought? If yes, it is a complete sentence!", objectives:["Identify complete sentences and sentence fragments","Fix fragments by adding the missing subject or predicate","Classify sentences as declarative, interrogative, imperative, or exclamatory"], activities:["Sort sentence strips into 'complete' and 'fragment' piles","Fix 10 sentence fragments by adding missing parts","Write one example of each sentence type about your school"], homework:"Write 5 complete sentences about Paynesville. Then fix these fragments: 'The boy in my class.' 'Running very fast.' 'Because it was raining.'", assessQ:"Which is a complete sentence?", assessOpts:["A) The teacher explained the lesson clearly.","B) Running to the market.","C) The big red house.","D) Because I was late."], assessAns:"A" })
