lesson({ title:"Reading: Sequencing Events", body:"When we read a story or passage, events happen in a certain order — this is called the sequence. Understanding sequence helps us follow the story and remember what happened. Today we practice identifying the order of events.\n\nSequence means the order in which things happen — first, second, third, and so on. Authors use signal words to show sequence: first, next, then, after that, meanwhile, later, finally, before, during, afterward, last.\n\nLet us read this passage: 'Musu woke up early on Saturday. First, she swept the compound. Then, she fetched water from the well. After that, she helped her mother prepare breakfast. Next, she walked to Red Light Market to buy vegetables. Finally, she returned home and started her homework.'\n\nThe sequence is clear: (1) woke up, (2) swept, (3) fetched water, (4) helped with breakfast, (5) went to market, (6) homework. The signal words 'first, then, after that, next, finally' guide us.\n\nSometimes authors use flashbacks — they go back in time to tell about something that happened earlier. 'As Jenneh walked to school, she remembered the day last year when she had been too afraid to enter the classroom.' The flashback interrupts the sequence to give background information.\n\nTo sequence events, ask: What happened first? What happened next? What caused what? What was the result? Making a timeline of events can help you organize the sequence visually.\n\nSequencing is important in everyday life too. When you give directions to someone ('First go straight, then turn right, finally look for the blue gate'), you use sequence. When you follow a recipe for palm butter, the steps must be in the right order!\n\nPractice sequencing by retelling stories in order, using signal words to connect the events.", objectives:["Identify the sequence of events in a passage using signal words","Retell events in correct chronological order","Recognize flashbacks and other non-linear storytelling techniques"], activities:["Cut apart sentence strips and arrange them in correct sequence","Read a short passage and create a timeline of events","Retell a classmate's weekend story using sequence signal words"], homework:"Write about your morning routine using at least 5 sequence signal words (first, then, next, after that, finally).", assessQ:"Which word is a sequence signal word?", assessOpts:["A) Then","B) Because","C) Although","D) However"], assessAns:"A" })
