lesson({ title:"Living Things: Characteristics of Life", body:"What makes something alive? Today we learn the seven characteristics that all living things share. These characteristics help us tell the difference between living things (like a palm tree or a goat) and non-living things (like a rock or a chair).\n\nThe seven characteristics of life are: Movement, Respiration, Sensitivity, Growth, Reproduction, Excretion, and Nutrition. A helpful memory trick is MRS GREN — the first letter of each characteristic.\n\nMovement: All living things move. Animals walk, swim, or fly. Plants move too — they grow toward sunlight. Watch a cassava plant in your family's garden — it slowly turns its leaves toward the sun throughout the day.\n\nRespiration: All living things get energy from food through respiration. This is not just breathing — it is a chemical process in cells that converts food into energy. Even plants respire!\n\nSensitivity: Living things respond to changes in their environment. When you touch a hot pot, you pull your hand back. When a plant does not get water, it wilts. Animals in Liberia's Sapo National Park respond to sounds of predators by hiding.\n\nGrowth: All living things grow and develop. A baby grows into a child, then an adult. A seed grows into a tree. The rubber trees on plantations in Margibi County grow for years before they are large enough to produce latex.\n\nReproduction: Living things produce offspring — new living things of the same kind. Rice plants produce seeds that grow into new rice plants. Chickens lay eggs that hatch into chicks.\n\nExcretion: Living things remove waste products. Animals excrete through sweat, urine, and breathing out carbon dioxide. Plants release oxygen and water vapor through their leaves.\n\nNutrition: Living things need food for energy. Animals eat other organisms. Plants make their own food using sunlight through photosynthesis.\n\nRemember: ALL seven characteristics must be present for something to be alive. A car moves and uses fuel, but it does not grow or reproduce — so it is not alive!", objectives:["List the seven characteristics of living things (MRS GREN)","Distinguish between living and non-living things using the characteristics","Give Liberian examples for each characteristic of life"], activities:["MRS GREN sorting game: classify objects as living or non-living","Walk around the school grounds and identify living things and their characteristics","Create a poster showing all 7 characteristics with local examples"], homework:"Choose 3 living things from your home. For each, write how it shows all 7 characteristics of life.", assessQ:"Which is NOT a characteristic of living things?", assessOpts:["A) Magnetism","B) Growth","C) Reproduction","D) Respiration"], assessAns:"A" })
