lesson({ title:"Our Community: Markets & Trade", body:"Markets are the heartbeat of Liberian communities. They are not just places to buy and sell — they are where people meet, share news, build relationships, and keep culture alive. Today we explore how markets and trade work in our community.\n\nIn Paynesville, Red Light Market is one of the busiest markets in Monrovia. Thousands of people come daily to buy and sell goods. You can find food (rice, cassava, fish, vegetables, palm oil), clothing, household items, electronics, and more. Market women are the backbone of Liberian trade — they buy goods in bulk and sell them in smaller quantities.\n\nTrade is the exchange of goods and services. In old times, Liberians used barter — trading one good for another. 'I will give you a bundle of cassava for two dried fish.' Today we mostly use money (Liberian dollars and sometimes US dollars), but the principle is the same: exchanging something you have for something you need.\n\nPrices in markets are often negotiated. A buyer offers a lower price, the seller asks for more, and they agree somewhere in the middle. This is called bargaining or haggling. Knowing how to bargain is an important life skill in Liberia!\n\nSupply and demand affect prices. When many sellers have palm oil (high supply) and few people want it (low demand), the price drops. When palm oil is scarce (low supply) but many people need it (high demand), the price rises. During the rainy season, some foods become scarce, and prices increase.\n\nMarkets also create jobs. Think of everyone who works because of markets: farmers grow the food, transporters bring it to the market, sellers arrange and sell it, money changers convert currency, and food preparers cook meals for market workers.\n\nMarkets connect communities. Goods from Nimba County iron mines, Bong County rice farms, and coastal fishing villages all come together in Monrovia's markets. Trade links all of Liberia into one economic community.", objectives:["Explain how markets function as economic and social centers","Describe the concepts of supply, demand, and price negotiation","Identify the roles markets play in connecting communities"], activities:["Simulate a market: students set prices, buy, sell, and practice bargaining","Supply and demand game: change supply amounts and observe price changes","Map the journey of a product from farm to market to your home"], homework:"Visit a local market or shop. Write about 3 things you observed: What was sold? How were prices set? How many people worked there?", assessQ:"What happens to the price when demand is high but supply is low?", assessOpts:["A) The price goes up","B) The price goes down","C) The price stays the same","D) The product disappears"], assessAns:"A" })
