lesson({ title:"Living Things: Habitats", body:"A habitat is the natural home of a living thing — the place where it finds everything it needs to survive: food, water, shelter, and space. Liberia has many different habitats, each supporting unique communities of plants and animals.\n\nThe tropical rainforest is Liberia's largest habitat. It covers about 45% of the country and is home to thousands of species. The forest has layers: the emergent layer (tallest trees reaching 50+ meters), the canopy (main roof of the forest), the understory (smaller trees and shrubs), and the forest floor (dark, covered with fallen leaves). Each layer provides habitat for different organisms — birds and monkeys in the canopy, frogs and insects in the understory.\n\nFreshwater habitats include Liberia's many rivers, streams, lakes, and swamps. Fish, frogs, crocodiles, and water insects live here. The St. Paul River and its tributaries create a freshwater habitat that supports fishing communities.\n\nCoastal and marine habitats include beaches, mangrove swamps, and the ocean along Liberia's 579 km coastline. Mangroves are especially important — their tangled roots protect the coast from erosion, filter water, and provide nursery areas for young fish.\n\nSavanna habitat is found in parts of northern Liberia and much of neighboring West Africa. Tall grasses with scattered trees support different animals than the dense forest — grazing animals, birds of prey, and burrowing creatures.\n\nEvery organism is adapted to its habitat. Fish have gills for breathing in water. Monkeys have grasping hands for climbing trees. Mangrove trees have roots that tolerate salt water. When a habitat is destroyed, the organisms that depend on it suffer.\n\nHabitat destruction is a real concern in Liberia. Deforestation for farming and logging, pollution of rivers, and coastal development all threaten habitats. Protecting habitats means protecting the living things within them and the services they provide — clean air, clean water, food, and medicine.", objectives:["Define habitat and identify its key components","Describe four major habitats found in Liberia","Explain how organisms are adapted to their specific habitats"], activities:["Create habitat dioramas or drawings for forest, river, coast, and savanna","Match animals to their correct Liberian habitat","Discuss: what happens when a habitat is destroyed?"], homework:"Choose one Liberian habitat. Draw it, label 5 organisms that live there, and explain one adaptation each organism has for that habitat.", assessQ:"What four things does a habitat provide for living things?", assessOpts:["A) Food, water, shelter, and space","B) Money, clothes, school, and books","C) Sunlight only","D) Air and nothing else"], assessAns:"A" })
