lesson({ title:"Writing: Descriptive Paragraph", body:"Today we learn to write descriptive paragraphs — writing that paints a picture with words. Good descriptive writing uses sensory details to help the reader see, hear, smell, taste, and feel what you are describing.\n\nSensory details engage the five senses. Instead of writing 'The market was busy,' write: 'The Red Light Market buzzed with the calls of sellers shouting prices, the sweet smell of ripe mangoes mixing with the smoky aroma of grilled fish, and the colorful sight of lappa cloth draped over wooden stalls.'\n\nWhich version helps you picture the market? The second one! That is the power of descriptive writing.\n\nUsing specific nouns makes writing vivid. Instead of 'food,' say 'jollof rice,' 'palm butter soup,' or 'roasted plantain.' Instead of 'tree,' say 'coconut palm' or 'silk-cotton tree.' Specific words create clearer images.\n\nStrong adjectives add detail. Instead of 'nice,' use 'vibrant,' 'peaceful,' 'crowded,' or 'dusty.' Instead of 'big,' use 'towering,' 'massive,' or 'sprawling.' Choose adjectives that precisely describe what you see.\n\nAction verbs bring scenes to life. Instead of 'The woman was at the market,' write 'The woman strode through the market, balancing a basin of oranges on her head.' 'Strode' and 'balancing' show action.\n\nOrganize descriptive paragraphs spatially — describe from left to right, near to far, top to bottom, or outside to inside. This gives the reader a logical way to 'see' the scene.\n\nA good descriptive paragraph has: a topic sentence that names what you are describing, 4-5 sentences with sensory details, specific nouns and adjectives, and a concluding sentence that captures the overall feeling.\n\nToday you will write a descriptive paragraph about a place you know well — your home, your school, or a market. Make your reader feel like they are there!", objectives:["Use sensory details (sight, sound, smell, taste, touch) in writing","Choose specific nouns, strong adjectives, and action verbs","Organize a descriptive paragraph using spatial order"], activities:["Brainstorm sensory details for a classroom description using a five-senses chart","Revise bland sentences by adding specific and sensory details","Write a descriptive paragraph about a place in Paynesville"], homework:"Write a descriptive paragraph about your favorite place. Use at least one detail for each of the five senses.", assessQ:"Which sentence uses the best sensory detail?", assessOpts:["A) The smoky aroma of grilled fish drifted through the market.","B) The market had food.","C) It was a nice place.","D) The market was there."], assessAns:"A" })
